What we were talking yesterday about, really
about concepts of the environment, and I wanted to
open up today by asking how you react to people like
Jacques Cousteau, for example, who talk about
oceans dying.
Well, I don't take them too seriously except the
impact they have on this. community and congress
and so on that their voices is rather loud out of
proportion probably to the amount of information
they have available these environmental
questions are certainly very complicated and and
many of them were i think we have only very
fragmentary information about And it's going to
take a long time to actually solve them. It's
probably some merit in drawing attention to the
problems in general through advocates such as
Cousteau, who speak out very loudly on them. But I
think that they probably create more problems
than they resolve.
Well, how would you call attention, let's say, to
the average American concerning problems of
science in the environment?
Oh, this is even more complicated. An aspect of it
that interests me is really, I think, the semantic
question. And it involves... at least two aspects
and one is just the general question of vocabulary
of not understanding each other's words but the
more fundamental one is how you can draw people's
attention to and inform them about features of the
art environment
which have not in their experience or education
being recognized as significant features that
this is a problem that I'm confronted with right
now in the Institute for Marine Studies of trying
to describe certain characteristics of the ocean
and the processes that affect the ocean in terms
that will be meaningful to lawyers and other
people whose educational experience has been in
the social sciences.
Now, when these people come to your institute, the
first thing you do, do you spend time describing
the ocean and the ocean's viability? Well, one of
the first courses they take is one which I teach,
which I call the ocean system, which is
essentially a
comprehensive
course in terms of subject matter, but obviously
not a very profound one about the characteristics
of the ocean atmosphere and other of the
environmental components that make up what I call
the ocean system. And so it's primarily just a
direct task of trying to provide some
understanding with the constraint that they have
very little scientific background, most of these
people. And it's also a problem of essentially
getting and holding their interest in matters
which in many cases must seem to them as trivial and
insignificant and unimportant. And this is the
kind of problem that intrigues me very much here as
to how one can gain the necessary rapport to be able
to communicate adequately with these people
without the great depth of scientific
understanding. And so, primarily then, the
Marine Institute, what you're trying to do is
appoint the layman then, I suppose. Well, we don't
go very far into educating the public here. We're
concerned with with the education of a relatively
small number of
what we hope will be sort of experts later on. And
yet the same sort of problem, I think, is common to
almost any audience outside of the scientific
community. And even within science, you have the
same sort of communications problems these days.
The point I'm trying to emphasize to you, it's not
just a matter of vocabulary, although this is a
fairly large component. It's even conceptual.
One of the sort of an example of this was that there
are, of course, many so-called laws in science.
And it dawned on me one day that to a lawyer, the term
law certainly has a different meaning than the way
it is used. Science,
oh. Go
ahead. Now,
when they're through with the institute, or when
they finish what amounts to their curriculum in
the institute, then do you expect them to go to work
for the government or simply be more aware of
environmental problems? We've entered this
topic by the back door here. The institute was set
up about five years ago by the university as a
graduate activity to offer graduate courses and
conduct research. what we now call an area of
marine affairs. And what we're striving to do is to
draw together the information and techniques and
understanding from a variety of different fields
and give the students an opportunity to get a kind
of breadth of understanding of what these
problems are. these three there are in general
sort of three general areas of disciplines that
are involved one being the natural sciences or the
environmental scientists the other two are
involved the social sciences economics law
political science anthropology, hopefully some
history, and then the technological sciences or
engineering sciences that concern with how you
do, how you carry out various kinds of operations.
And these are obviously focused on the ocean, so
they're sort of the marine technologies. So we're
working on a very broad sort of base. At the moment,
we're concentrating on a two-year master's
program. And during that time, the principal sort
of effort will be to provide students with a sort of
breadth in these various fields. And I mentioned
the one course that I teach. I also offer a second
one, which has more concern with how you apply the
environmental information to a variety of
different sort of problems that affect human
activities. I don't deal with the economic or
legal or political issues, although I have to keep
these things in mind, otherwise we wouldn't be
meeting our goal of trying to develop an
interdisciplinary program.
Aside from the textbook, which everybody
concedes is a major contribution to
oceanography, what would you name as your other
most important contribution? I realize that's a
terrible question to ask you, but nevertheless.
Well, I agree with you. I think it's a terrible one.
I think that probably the development of the
undergraduate program here at the University of
Washington, and I I select that rather than the
graduate program, which is obviously closely
coupled to it, because there have been a number of
opportunities for graduate study in this
country, although we were the pioneers, really,
in the undergraduate program. There are a couple
of other things that I will be inclined to bring up
that I am rather proud of, One of them was that I
broke the color line in the hydrographic office.
Well, I was there up until that time. The blacks,
particularly, had never been hired except for
very low-level jobs. And I started implying black
professionals. And after that, why, the doors
were open. The other star I had in my crown, maybe
rather tarnished, is that I essentially opened up
the opportunities for women in oceanography
because I employed
girls, ladies, both during the war and in
Washington, and more particularly I made it
possible for them to go to sea, which was one of the
more difficult obstacles to overcome 20, 30 years
ago when there was a very strong prejudice against
having females on board ship. So I think I
contributed my small part, at least towards the
liberation of the females. There has always been a
charge leveled at the sciences, rightly or
wrongly, that scientists or the discipline of
science itself has had the greatest amount of
prejudice towards women. Would you agree with
that? I don't
think it's been particularly noticeable as a
prejudice against women. There's certainly been
the feeling that in many cases they were
physically incapable
of going to sea because of the strenuous nature of
the work that had to be carried on, but that is
certainly no longer the case. The other concern in
years gone by, which I shared in some degree, was
the fact that I thought it was probably in many
cases in a sense a poor investment to spend time and
effort in educating girls in science and then have
them get married and leave the field. It just
wasn't, in a sense, very cost effective in a way.
But I think the opportunities have existed for a
long time. I'm surprised that more haven't, in a
way, gone into the field than I see. Many of them are
apparently attracted by it, but are unable to
continue through to, well, let's say, a PhD level.
They get discouraged or get distracted and tend to
leave earlier than that. But I have a feeling that a
lot of, females would like to be associated with
science rather than actually be scientists, but
this is hard to offer any sort of evidence on this.
One thing that doesn't interest me very much is the
fact that we're getting quite a few females in the
Institute for Marine Studies program, which sort
of surprised me because I hadn't anticipated
this. And it may be that this sort of
interdisciplinary policy management type
problems is something to which they're
singularly endowed and maybe are better at it than
the men who may prefer to specialize. But this is
purely my own speculation. I don't know if there's
any basis for it at all. I think even the domestic
chores that most women undertake a very
complicated set of policy and management
problem. And maybe they're better able to cope
with all these interacting type
things that go towards the household than a man is.
Now, the next series of questions I have to ask
really concerns sort of the future of
oceanography.
First of all, is that there have have been sort of in
fields in oceanography, if I may use that word.
That, for example, nuclear engineering was a big
field in oceanography in the late 50s and early
60s. What sort of do you see now as the future of
oceanography, the in fields? What would you tell a
young oceanographer to do beside his interest?
Well,
I think we went through a period that probably
fifteen, maybe twenty years began in the late
fifties when there was a good deal of popular
interest in the ocean. not only as being a sort of
adventurous region, the last frontier, and
similar sort of analogies were drawn, but that a
lot of young people had the idea that this was an
environment in which there was a lot of
opportunity to make money. And I think now this
attitude is changing. But it certainly attracted
a great many the young people in that period. As far
as the future is concerned, it's
inevitable that the world will depend to an
increasing amount upon the resources of the ocean
and upon the use of the ocean for purposes that are
related but not directly dependent on marine
resources. Transportation is an example of this.
And I think there's a great deal of opportunity in
essentially innovative types of engineering and
the development of possibly entirely new kinds of
of engineering enterprises that, and these are
always hard to really identify, and
there's the whole question of food from the sea,
which is a very, very important one, and so that
anything that we can learn which will contribute
to essentially a high level of of production in the
ocean and more effective means of utilizing these
food resources. There are many, many examples
that could be cited, but I see no sort of one or two
kind of unique developments.
As we were talking earlier, if the
manganese nodule mining venture goes, this
opens, I believe, a whole array of possibilities
of other types of materials that might be taken
from the deep sea. I have nothing specific in mind
here, but just the existence of a technology may
suggest other since the applications of that kind
of a technology. There's undoubtedly going to be
further developments in the search for petroleum
materials beneath the sea, and presumably this is
also going to go into deeper and deeper water as a
technology develops. But probably of almost
equal importance these days are the questions
that that arise from the environmental concern or
the preservation of the ocean as well as possible
in the face of ever increasing impacts of human
activities on the environment. And in this sense,
it's just part and parcel of the total global
environment as I see it. I noticed you didn't
mention, for example, physical oceanography or
systematics. Well, all right. This is, as I said,
there are many different examples. One of the
things that we're probably going to see are
efforts to try and obtain energy from the ocean.
And we have a few sort of scattered relatively
small examples of this, of the use of tidal energy.
There are plans now to try and develop the thermal
energy to make use of the heat that's present in the
water, possibly to use ocean currents to drive
large propeller-like devices, the equivalent of
windmills. And there's the possibility that we
may want to use the certain areas of the ocean.
Probably they would be near the coast for the
direct capture of solar energy in some scheme
analogous to those used on land. So there are
certainly a lot of physical
questions or aspects of the physical
characteristics of the ocean that are going to be
important. But most of these things are going to
take, I think, a very long time to see any great
development. Do you see more and more use of
technology in oceanography? Oh, I think this is
what has hampered the field in many ways. There has
been a revolution in technologies that has
occurred really as a consequence of the
developments in the whole field of electronics,
new kinds of instruments and sensing devices that
have come along. But these are primarily in sort of
chemical, physical, and in part in the
geophysical area. And what always seems to me to be
lacking is the very slow developments of
instrumentation and techniques in the
biological field, where in many cases we're using
methods that are roughly 100 years old. And I'm
always expecting to see some major sort of
developments in the biological aspect, but so far
haven't seen a great deal.
What about the use of the computer, though, in
biology and predicting all kinds of ecosystems?
A lot of computer work is being done in effect to
build many oceans. Well, there's a lot of work
going on in modeling. The computers certainly
encourage developments of this kind, but the
problem is at the present time...
Do you want me to go ahead? Sure. All
right, the difficulty with the development of
models and the use of computers as a mechanism for
essentially handling the numerical aspects of
these is that there are still major gaps in basic
knowledge concerning the ocean. So most of the
models that I've seen suffer from being too
restricted or too hypothetical. They're not very
close approximation to the real ocean. One of your
contemporaries has suggested that the problem
with computer work is that they're not out in the
ocean enough to know what the ocean works like.
Would you agree with that? Well, this may be so.
There have been some sort of interesting
developments in computers, and
some computers do go to sea, and not the very large
ones, but it is possible now to process data in
essentially real time, so it's available very
quickly. And there have been some efforts made to
actually predict on essentially a day-to-day
business, I'm sorry, day-to-day basis, and then,
in effect, test what the validity of the
projections is being made by the computers. I
think they serve a useful purpose, any of these
attempts at modeling. even though they may not
solve a problem, they usually tend to sharpen up
the questions and indicate serious deficiencies
in the type of information. What I'm concerned
with here is the fact that there are very few types
of measurements that are made or can be made today
which essentially give rates at which various
things are occurring. And I am not sure that we're
going to be able to arrive at many of these, and this
is one of the main difficulties with any of these
sort of modeling techniques, the lack of
understanding of the processes and the rates at
which they occur. Now, I want to change the title
for a reason.